---
layout: post
title:  "JDK contents"
date:   2017-05-15 16:46:56
categories: Java
description: JDK contents
keywords: [Andrei Pall, blog, freebsd, linux, framework]
excerpt: The Java Development Kit (JDK) is an implementation of either one of the Java Platform, Standard Edition; Java Platform, Enterprise Edition or Java Platform, Micro Edition platforms released by Oracle Corporation in the form of a binary product aimed at Java developers on Solaris, Linux, macOS or Windows. The JDK includes a private JVM and a few other resources to finish the development of a Java Application.
---

The Java Development Kit (JDK) is an implementation of either one of the Java Platform, Standard Edition; Java Platform, Enterprise Edition or Java Platform, Micro Edition platforms released by Oracle Corporation in the form of a binary product aimed at Java developers on Solaris, Linux, macOS or Windows. The JDK includes a private JVM and a few other resources to finish the development of a Java Application.

The JDK has as its primary components a collection of programming tools, including:
<ul>
<li>appletviewer – this tool can be used to run and debug Java applets without a web browser</li>
<li>apt – the annotation-processing tool</li>
<li>extcheck – a utility that detects JAR file conflicts</li>
<li>idlj – the IDL-to-Java compiler. This utility generates Java bindings from a given Java IDL file.</li>
<li>jabswitch – the Java Access Bridge. Exposes assistive technologies on Microsoft Windows systems.</li>
<li>java – the loader for Java applications. This tool is an interpreter and can interpret the class files generated by the javac compiler. Now a single launcher is used for both development and deployment. The old deployment launcher, jre, no longer comes with Sun JDK, and instead it has been replaced by this new java loader.</li>
<li>javac – the Java compiler, which converts source code into Java bytecode</li>
<li>javadoc – the documentation generator, which automatically generates documentation from source code comments</li>
<li>jar – the archiver, which packages related class libraries into a single JAR file. This tool also helps manage JAR files.</li>
<li>javafxpackager – tool to package and sign JavaFX applications</li>
<li>jarsigner – the jar signing and verification tool</li>
<li>javah – the C header and stub generator, used to write native methods</li>
<li>javap – the class file disassembler</li>
<li>javaws – the Java Web Start launcher for JNLP applications</li>
<li>JConsole – Java Monitoring and Management Console</li>
<li>jdb – the debugger</li>
<li>jhat – Java Heap Analysis Tool (experimental)</li>
<li>jinfo – This utility gets configuration information from a running Java process or crash dump. (experimental)</li>
<li>jmap Oracle jmap - Memory Map – This utility outputs the memory map for Java and can print shared object memory maps or heap memory details of a given process or core dump. (experimental)</li>
<li>jmc – Java Mission Control</li>
<li>jps – Java Virtual Machine Process Status Tool lists the instrumented HotSpot Java Virtual Machines (JVMs) on the target system. (experimental)</li>
<li>jrunscript – Java command-line script shell.</li>
<li>jstack – utility that prints Java stack traces of Java threads (experimental)</li>
<li>jstat – Java Virtual Machine statistics monitoring tool (experimental)</li>
<li>jstatd – jstat daemon (experimental)</li>
<li>keytool – tool for manipulating the keystore</li>
<li>pack200 – JAR compression tool</li>
<li>policytool – the policy creation and management tool, which can determine policy for a Java runtime, specifying which permissions are available for code from various sources.</li>
<li>VisualVM – visual tool integrating several command-line JDK tools and lightweight performance and memory profiling capabilities</li>
<li>wsimport – generates portable JAX-WS artifacts for invoking a web service.</li>
<li>xjc – Part of the Java API for XML Binding (JAXB) API. It accepts an XML schema and generates Java classes.</li>
</ul>
